# macOS System Updater

A simple-to-use CLI utility to properly update your macOS installation all at once.

## Why Properly Updated

Once you want to do a full update of your macOS installation, there occurs various struggles:

1. **GUI hassles:** Some updates can be accomplished by their respective GUIs, however, it's cumbersome; especially the Mac App Store which still doesn't reflect the changes properly,
2. **Complex Commands:** Even though some commands are easy to type, others can be more elaborate,
2. **Keeping track of caches:** These commands fill up their caches that needs to be cleaned regularly which is another thing for you to keep track of,
3. **Time lost:** If you're manually entering these commands, you're going to have to wait in between them; losing time.

With all these hassles, it could be that someone might not update their system too often; not because they can't but they don't want to deal with it. Or it could be that they're forgetting something; e.g. cache cleanups.

Hence, this script was created. So that people can properly update their macOS installation.

It goes through major things that can be on a macOS installation and updates them properly/throughly.

## Why `sudo` is requested

This script asks for your `sudo` password!

Full disclosure:

- the script itself doesn't require sudo itself but the Python and Ruby stuff makes use of it,
- the script doesn't messes around with your sudo password; feel free to check the source code.

## What's Updated

- Homebrew
- App Store apps
- macOS
- Python 2
- PIP 2 packages
- Ruby
- RVM

> Python 3 and PIP 3 are updated by Homebrew if you've installed them from Homebrew which is mostly the case.

## Requirements

- Homebrew
- `mas`: required for updating the Mac App Store apps from the CLI. If you don't have it:
	- `brew install mas`

## Usage

`update [OPTIONS] [ENV]`

## Options

- **-h, --help:** See a synopsis.
- **-o, --output:** Output the logs to a given file.
- **-v, --verbose:** While updating, be verbose & output what's being generated by each and every command. The default is that merely the main command entrances and exits will be displayed.

## Update Environments

- macos
- mas
- homebrew
- ruby
- rvm
- python2
- pip
- system(all of the above combined)

## Usage Examples

Updating everything:

	update system

Update everything, be verbose, and log to the given location:

	update -o ~/Desktop/update.log -v system

Just update `Ruby` & `PIP`:

	update ruby pip

Be verbose and show what's going on while updating:

	update -v

## To Be Implemented

- [ ] Allow carry on without providing sudo and hence ask it later,
- [ ] Implement logging,
- [ ] Implement verbose operation,
- [ ] Implement the usage cases of the command line argument.

## Known Issues

- Updating the Python packages is throwing an error,
- Updating the Ruby gems is still problematic even if sudo is granted,